Welcome to Indian Statistical Institute (ISI), a unique institution devoted to the research, teaching and application of statistics, natural sciences and social sciences, founded by Professor Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis in Kolkata on 17th December, 1931. The Institute gained the status of an Institution of National Importance by an act of the Indian Parliament in 1959. The Central Library occupies a unique place in academic and research activities of the Institute and also serve as the intellectual, cultural and social center for the Institute and the Community. The library moved into the present premises in 1978 and it occupies 5 floors (60000sq.ft) of a ten-storied building at Kolkata. The Library, Documentation and Information Science Division comprise of the Central Library at Kolkata and other centre libraries at Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi and Tezpur apart from the Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis Memorial Museum and Archives in Kolkata.
The primary objective of the library is to support the educational and research programs of the institute by providing physical and online access to information, accordance with the present as well as the anticipated educational and research functions of the institute. In line with the objectives of the institute, over the years, the library has developed a comprehensive collection of peer-reviewed scholarly literature useful for the faculty and the research community of the institute. The other objective is to serve as a resource center for the scholars and scientific community of the country.
ISI library is also functioning as the Eastern Regional Library of the National Board of Higher Mathematics [NBHM], Department of Atomic Energy, Government of India since 1989.

Off-Campus (Remote) access to online resources
The faculty members / research scholars / students / staff members staying outside ISI campus/ members from different centres, branches & outlaying units or while travelling can now access the licensed online resources like the ejournals, edatabases, and e-books through RemoteXs-an off-campus access solution mechanism. Interested may write at library@isical.ac.in to activate their account.

iThenticate: anti-plagiarism software
iThenticate software is now available in the library. Interested faculty members / research scholars / students / staff members can check the similarity index of their manuscript / thesis / dissertation / documents with this software. One may contact the Library Circulation Desk to know more about the services.
Library members may login to their personal account with a valid username and password which may be collected from the library personnel.

To login to your personal account, enter your information in the appropriate space on the right side of this page to know about your circulation history. For login ID and password consult library personnel